Dear Jodie, thanks so much for the book, the recommendation, and the challenge! Christie is one of my favourite authors, and of course she shares a first name with my great Aunt, Agatha Highfield. We have a file on her in the Archive and I am sure you would enjoy reading it. The Mansion is fabulous, I can easily imagine Miss Marple or Poirot taking tea here and it is the ideal background for a sabbatical. It has a real gothic feel, though I must admit, the current owner didn’t seem all that happy when I said so to her. She was polite, but not amused, and muttered something like “will they never stop haunting us” as she walked away. Ghosts seem to be the theme at the moment - I decrypted the paper you sent and found the acrostic. At first I thought the initial letters spelt out Red Rum, and assumed the note was associated with the kidnap of the famous racehorse, but it didn’t take long to realise that it should be read backwards: Murder. Can you say more about where the note came from? Is it a cold case you are working on? Sounds fun. Sudoku is all very well, but to really stretch the little grey cells (as Poirot would say) I would love something a little stronger, so if there is anything else in the file that I could assist with, let me know. You mentioned that you are working with the trainees again. I suggest that we encrypt our messages to one another and set them as an exercise for the team. We could start with something simple for the newbies and then ramp up the difficulty. What do you think? Anyway, it is time for coffee. They serve it in the Orangery mid-afternoon. To be honest I expected tea in a country house like this, but that is the power of this place – it completely sells the illusion that I am back in England, rather than New England. Right down to the panelling and the carpets. Whoever built it had an eye for detail. I will look forward to hearing from you. Don’t forget to send me something interesting to do - I need to keep my brain sharp for when I get back, and even the great Agatha is no match for the BOSS archives. All the best, Harry
Welcome to the BOSS training division, my name is Jodie, and I will be supervising your development here in the agency. It is great to have so many new recruits and I hope that you will enjoy the exercise. I have had several roles in the organisation since I joined, with extended periods working in the field, but for now I head the Archaeologists Division, our name for the BOSS cold case section. Here we mine sources of historic intelligence that might be useful in live cases. We also research novel cryptographic techniques and use the case files we hold as exercises for staff training. I am borrowing the material we will use from Scotland Yard. I came across it a few years back in the Shadow Archive, during The Kompromat Files investigation. It wasn’t relevant at the time, but it caught my eye: a request from the Pinkerton Agency in the US for information about a young man whose body had been found in the library of a country house in New England. It sounded like a classic of the genre, but I was too busy to read it then. I think it might be fun, so from next week we will have access to the original documents and we will try to solve the mystery together. If we need anything that is not contained in the files then I have an agent on the ground in the US who should be able to help. Harry suggested that as part of your training I should give you access to the encrypted communications from that agent, Harry himself, so you will be able to practice breaking them too. It will be fun to see what he comes up with to test you! Good luck, Jodie.
The mission brief. Circulation: BOSS agent trainee cohort CC: Harry In Eighteen Ninety-Six, at a Mansion in Providence, Rhode Island, the Librarian Maisie Styles found a body at the foot of the library ladder. The deceased was clutching a small but valuable book that had been taken from the top shelf, presumably before the accident. The book was leather-bound, one of the eight volumes in the so-called Amontillado edition, signed by the publisher. The police were called and, following their investigations, determined that the stranger had fallen to his death while trying to steal the book. The enquiry seems to have been closed within a few days. No other official documents have been found in the police files concerning the case except a chain of letters from the librarian, urging the police to re-open the case. Our interest in this otherwise routine investigation was triggered by the discovery of a historic request for information about the deceased, sent by Pinkerton’s detective agency to the Metropolitan Police. Our field agent division, the Lamplighters, are working to find and retrieve any further correspondence associated with the case, but so far have only recovered the attached letter. It appears to be written by the owner of the library, Rogers, and sent to the Providence, Rhode Island Chief of Police. It is lightly encrypted using a substitution cipher with a keyword derived from the title of one of the short stories in the novella found at the scene. Your first mission is to decipher that letter. You can make use of the BOSS substitution cipher app and the letter frequency counter on our cipher tools page if that is helpful. Good luck, Jodie
Dear Tom, I hesitate to write to you at all, the matter being so delicate, so I hope you will understand why I have chosen to encipher this communication. I would not want to place you in any personal difficulty and am mindful that letters of this kind are easily misunderstood. I have already discussed with you my hope to serve one day as Governor of our home State. The recent rumors that Brown intends to step down to make a run at the Vice-Presidency present a significant opportunity to realise that ambition, and I have been taking soundings with potential supporters. I have received encouraging feedback, and my plans have advanced somewhat following discussions over the endowment for the new Providence Library. I know that we are in agreement on the need for a strong Governor, and I am concerned that any scandal associated with the strange death of the young man in my own library might taint that endowment and could ultimately weaken my campaign. You will understand my concern. I am sure there cannot be any more doubt in your mind than there is in my own that the death was an unfortunate accident, and I hope that you will be able to persuade your officers of the same. I look forward to your reply. Rogers.
Dear Jodie, How did the trainees get on? I assume they cracked the ciphers, but perhaps they struggled with what the letter told them. You need to know quite a bit about the US to understand what was going on. My own reading is that the owner of the library where the body was found was planning on mounting a campaign to get elected as governor of the state but was worried that any scandal might undermine his chances. He seems to have been on good terms with the local Chief of Police, and since that is also an elected position, they will have both understood what was at stake. I dug around and found that the chief, Tom Harper, had a reputation as an honest man, but his judgement might have been influenced by his friendship with Rogers, and the fact that the police were reluctant to investigate might have had more to do with manpower shortages than any undue influence. I checked their archives and there is some evidence that Harper carried out quiet enquiries of his own, perhaps after he received the letter from Rogers. I wondered if that was due diligence, but it might also be because he received a strange letter from a local doctor who seemed to have been assisting the Librarian, Maisie Styles, with her own investigation into the case. I am still unsure why she was involved. She worked in Rogers’ household and was the one who found the body, but it does seem a little above her pay grade to be launching an investigation into the circumstances of the death. The current owner of the house remembers her grandfather talking about Miss Maisie in fond tones. She worked here until she was no longer able to do so and was a diligent Librarian who built the collection from good to great. (It is still excellent, and I have not had time to start a crossword OR a sudoku since I discovered it!) Perhaps she was upset that someone had broken the sanctity of her domain and just wanted to understand why. She must have been worried about the security of the collection and it would have been frustrating that the police did not appear very interested. She seems to have asked the local doctor Maurice White to investigate the volume found in the deceased’s grasp; given his findings, that was a good call. I am not sure what his letter tells us, but once you have broken the encryption on it perhaps you can let me know what you think. I hope you didn’t mind me encrypting this note. I thought you and the trainees might enjoy breaking it. It is good practice for the letter from Dr Maurice White MD! All the best, Harry
Dearest Miss Styles, I must admit that I was unconvinced by your claim that we would find anything of note in the volume that you sent me. You are right that it has some value as a special edition of Poe’s work, but I could not see anything remarkable about it that might explain the presence or the death of the young man you found in the library. It is a fine specimen, and it was with some reluctance that I attacked the binding as I did not expect to find anything remarkable therein. You can imagine my surprise then to discover the attached note, clearly written in a cipher, and carefully concealed between the leather and the end boards. Even then I assumed this to be a publisher’s trick to promote the edition given the prominence of encryption in the tale, but consulting with my friends in the book trade, none of them had heard of such a conceit, and I could not find any record of an advertising campaign referring to such a curiosity. At this point I felt I should at least attempt to decipher the message and quickly discovered that the author had used the very mild convention of a shift cipher, clearly intended to be broken. The first line read “Recent events have made it clearer than ever to me that I am in mortal danger”, and the rest contained much to alarm me, especially the rather clumsy reverse acrostic which read MURDER (though for the longest time I assumed it to read RED RUM which caused me much confusion). Whether or not this concealed message points to the unfortunate death of your interloper is not apparent to me, but I think you are right that its presence should be sufficient to encourage the police to reopen the case. I will forward a copy of this letter, together with my findings, to my friend Tom Harper. As Chief of Police, he should have the power and influence to do so. With my best wishes, Maurice Dr. Maurice White M.D.
Harry, thanks for the copy of the Pinkerton report. I found an identical file in our archives, but it was an intercept from the telegraph and hadn’t been picked up by the police, so it was not in the files I had borrowed from them. I followed up on the bookshop lead but didn’t get far, although, curiously, Alresford has been a place of interest to the intelligence service for a while. The infamous Portland spy ring used the public lavatory over the road from the local police station there as a dead drop, which seems very unlikely, but I guess that was the point. Anyway, that has nothing to do with the case we are investigating here. I gather from the files that soon after Miss Styles received the Pinkerton report she was able to persuade the police to reopen the case. They don’t seem to have been particularly diligent or keen. Harper wrote a memo chastising them for their lack of progress, perhaps to impress his friend, Rogers, but the detective in charge replied with a long list of reasons why the case was hopeless. Harper’s diary shows that a planned meeting to discuss the case was cancelled soon after he received the reply. The whole thing would have been entirely forgotten by now if Maisie had not written again to the Police Chief with an extraordinary claim: the encrypted note that Dr White had found sewn into the binding of the book displayed several features that suggested it had been written on the typewriter in the Mansion itself. Tom Harper was sceptical, as the typeface appeared to be a standard Underwood, typical of hundreds of typewriters in the State, but it was true that the letter j showed a distinctive dip and that the letter a was missing its upper serif in the note, both features seen in other documents typed on the house machine. Harper was clearly disturbed by the discovery. His daily log noted the findings with the remarks: If the note was written by someone in the household, then does that mean that they were in league with Isles, or that they were somehow involved with him? Why did he choose that particular book? He sent a letter to Rogers asking him if he could account for the discovery and received the attached reply. We can judge just how rattled Rogers felt by the fact that he encrypted it using a Vigenere cipher. He clearly did not want to take a chance that anyone other than Harper would read it.
Tom my dear friend, I was somewhat surprised and confused to receive your letter asking me about the note that Dr White discovered in the binding of the book found by Isles’s body. I cannot see how you could think I would know anything about it, and I find it extremely unlikely that it could have been written by anyone in my household. Your claim that the characteristics of the type can be used to identify the source as the typewriter we hold in the Mansion seems to me to be divination, not science, and without much stronger evidence of a link between someone in my household and the young man Isles, I will not entertain or cooperate with any further investigations. I have already expressed my consternation at the prospect of a scandal derailing my campaign for State Governor, and I thought that you understood and agreed with me. Why you would want to re-open the case, when I have so much to lose and we have nothing to gain from it, I cannot understand. I know that Maisie has been pressing for further investigation, and it is clear that she was deeply distressed by the whole incident. She loves the library and would do anything to protect it, however she is merely a servant of the Estate, and surely my status as present owner gives greater weight to my views and wishes. While Isles clearly trespassed, he seems not to have caused any damage, and even if he was intending to steal from me, his untimely death forestalled that plan. He has already paid the price for his misdeeds, and I do not see any reason to continue to poke and probe at what must surely be a routine case. I must insist that you bring a final halt to your investigations and let him rest in peace. Let us not invite gossip at this critical time. Yours in friendship, Rogers.
Jodie, Following up on your last message I thought I should send you the attached. It is a letter from Maisie to the Providence branch of Pinkerton’s, sent via wireless in reply to a report which I have been unable to locate. Reading between the lines, I think we can assume that Maisie had commissioned further investigations following receipt of the report on Isles, and that she was continuing to fund the enquiry, though I am not sure how she managed that on a Librarian’s salary. Pinkerton’s must have believed that she was good for her debt as there is a file full of encrypted communications between them both, following up on this letter, and I think we will be busy breaking those ciphers over the next few weeks. The Morse slowed me down, but I eventually managed to crack the cipher underneath the code, and I can promise that you will find the contents interesting. Maisie spelled out what she thought might have been going on, but I wonder if she was missing something important. She hinted at it in the phrase “I was shocked to hear about the situation of my employer”, though she does not expand on that, nor does she follow that thought to its natural conclusion. Having carried out my own enquiries with contemporary bank records it is clear that the situation she referred to is the financial difficulty that Rogers mentioned in our earlier files. His ambition was much larger than his budget, and it occurs to me that perhaps the reason for the valuation and the new policy was to allow him to stage a theft. If he was in league with Isles, then he may have planned to sell some of the more valuable items from the Library at a knock down price to the Alresford dealers and to claim on the insurance. This would allow him to pay off his debts and to fund his campaign. You might object that he could have achieved more or less the same outcome by selling the books at face value but having boasted for some time about the treasures Maisie had acquired for him it would have been intensely embarrassing to gift only the lower valued parts of the collection to the City. There was also the risk that buyers would have been alerted to his need to sell, and that the resulting price would have been lower than the insurance valuation. It would certainly have been a dangerous strategy, but perhaps the risk was worth taking. The Rhode Island electorate were not much given to voting for bankrupts, especially those whose debts were accumulated at the card table. Of course, if Rogers was behind a scheme to defraud the insurers, then it is strange that he wanted the robbery investigation ended. But remember that no books were actually stolen, so no significant claim could arise. With no possible gain it makes sense that he would want the whole sorry affair forgotten. Further investigation might easily have brought his role in the theft to light, permanently spoiling his election chances and perhaps even leading to a spell of incarceration. I look forward to hearing your thoughts these idle speculations. I am enjoying my holiday! Best wishes, Harry
Jodie, I have been working through the stash of letters we discovered here in the library and found the message below. It was a handwritten letter from Maisie to Tom Harper demanding that he continues the investigation. In it she promised to send him the text of an encrypted telegram sent from the Manor to the booksellers in Alresford with the hope that he would be able to decipher it. I found the telegram itself in the Police archives and I can see why Maisie couldn’t break it: the hasty typing and the abbreviated phrasing makes it hard to read, added to which it is encrypted using a transposition cipher reading off by columns instead of rows. It was only when I spotted the pattern that I worked out what was going on. I know you will be able to break it, but I wonder how the new recruits will get on. Anyway, here is Maisie’s letter to the Chief: Dearest Chief Harper, I understand that the Medical Examiner and the Attorney General have both accepted your recommendation to record the cause of Mr Isles’ death as misadventure and that you do not plan to conduct any further investigation into the circumstances surrounding the accident. As head of the library at the Manor I object most strongly to this decision. While we cannot know for certain how the unfortunate young man came to be lying at the foot of the ladder, the book he had taken from the shelves was just one of the very valuable items in our collection, and the investigations by Pinkertons’ established that it was extremely likely that he was engaged in theft at the time of his fall. Given that he seems to have been engaged by an established gang of book thieves to visit us, there must surely be a risk that they will send another in his place to do their bidding. If that were not enough then consider the most recent discovery by Pinkertons’: that some of the telegrams received by the Alresford dealers were sent from the Manor itself. Furthermore, they conducted their own tests and established that the note found in the spine of the book was typed on our very own Sholes and Gidden typewriter. It is clear that something is very wrong in our household and no policeman worth his office would overlook the circumstances, however close he may be to the investigation. I will forward the text of the message sent to England for your own perusal. It defeated my own attempt to decrypt it, but if you are prepared to work with the Pinkertons’ agents then I am sure you will be able to break the cipher and shed some light on this awful affair. Yours sincerely, Miss Maisie Styles
Please confirm date your agent Isles arriving New York. Will arrange accommodation as required. List required books missing. Please send again so can ensure they are on display. Will leave instructions for entry at hotel desk. Isles to ensure no-one observes entry to Manor estate. Date of departure also needed. Will send details for payment by a separate telegram so please do not reply to this one. Must emphasise need for complete care and discretion. Collection very valuable. Many rare items. Source easily identified if disposed of together. Can help with storage and shipping after collection if necessary but will need advanced warning. Do not contact Ms Styles with queries.
Harry, thanks for the files you sent me, we have a much better picture of what happened, but I am still not very clear why, and I am not entirely sure I know who in the household was involved.   Maisie was clearly very anxious about the Library. The attached extract from her spells out her deep attachment to it. Moreover the effort and money she spent trying to establish evidence connecting the household to the attempted theft shows how important it was to her. Is it possible that it wasn’t Rogers who organised the theft? Could someone in the Manor have had a grudge against Maisie? Stealing from the Library seems like a good, if convoluted, way to get at her.   I would like to read more of Maisie’s thoughts, but she was very careful. Her diary pages were encrypted with a host of different ciphers, and as time went on she adapted and strengthened them. This one looks hard, but it is really pretty easy. The later ones get a lot tougher!   Anyway, we need to plan our next steps. Could you try to get a list of the members of Rogers’ household and make enquiries about them? It would be good to know if there was anyone who had a reason to dislike Maisie. We should not discount Maisie’s theory that the theft was part of an insurance scam either, but I find it hard to believe that Rogers would have risked his reputation and his chance of the Governorship even if he was short of money. People like him could usually find someone to back them.   I look forward to hearing from you.   Jodie   PS, what are you reading right now?
My investigations of the incident have been more fruitful than I could have hoped. Pinkertons have provided clear evidence that there was a conspiracy to steal from my Library and that evidence points to my employer, or at least someone in his employment. Mr Rogers had planned to donate the collection to the City Library in order to promote his campaign for election to Governor, but the books are far too valuable to give away, and it is easy to believe that he would have tried to realise some of that value for himself. Especially since an election is an expensive business in our state. There are advertisements to purchase and influential people who need to be convinced to back him. It is my duty as custodian of the collection to protect it. I cannot let him destroy everything we have built together.   It was my hope that by gathering enough evidence to incriminate him I could convince Mr Rogers to leave the Library alone. I have spent years curating it and it contains many precious items. I could not bear to lose it.   I have shown him the letters from Pinkertons and tried to reason with him. He is very angry with me and keeps saying that the death and the attempted theft had nothing to do with him. He is right that there is nothing conclusive in the evidence, but as I pointed out to him, there does not need to be any proof. Even the suspicion of his involvement would severely damage his reputation and would destroy his chance of election.   He has threatened to fire me, but it is an empty threat. He cannot afford for me to talk to the press. Until he agrees to my demands I will continue to harass him and to build my evidence. My library must be protected at all costs.  
Jodie, I have more or less completed the investigation here and thought I should bring you up to date with my findings: a) Rogers had inherited the collection and following her appointment nine years before the incident, Maisie had curated it, acquiring a large number of rare and valuable editions of American texts. b) Following the investigations by Harper and Maisie herself, Rogers withdrew from the gubernatorial race and wrote to the Rhode Island Library to tell them that he was withdrawing the offer of his collection. He did not give a reason and did not receive a reply from them as far as I can tell. c) Rogers continued to live at the Mansion, and disappeared from public life. He continued to fund the expansion of the library, and Maisie continued to curate it. d) Upon his death Rogers left almost his entire estate to his niece Nancy Warne, who took up residence at the Manor, with the caveat that Maisie was to be allowed to live with her and to maintain the Library. e) Maisie continued to live in the east wing of the house, looking after the library until she passed away. When I got that far I thought maybe we were done and that this would go down in the annals as a dead end, to be returned to the Archaeology section as a curiosity rather than a closed case, but then I found a letter from the Rhode Island City Library to Nancy. She had offered the Library collection to the city following Maisie’s death and they were writing to tell her that following an assessment of the collection they would be unable to accept the kind offer. The reason? Their audit showed that many of the rare and valuable items were in fact fakes! No-one was ever convicted in connection with the break in or any crime connected with the forgeries. I still don’t know whether Rogers knew the books were fake, but it seems unlikely given his keenness to donate them – as we know, the fraud was bound to be exposed by the experts working at the City Library. Maybe Rogers and Maisie were victims of fraud by booksellers, but the books were bought in small batches and it doesn’t seem likely that they were both repeatedly fooled. In any case Maisie’s background in book preservation should have made it possible for her to spot at least some of the fakes. The enclosed letter from Maisie to Rogers doesn’t shed much light, but until I can crack the rest of her diary it is all I have got to go on. I feel like we are close to solving this mystery, but still not quite there. I have the original letter on my desk, but found an encrypted copy in Maisie’s diary, and since it is rather an interesting cipher, I have attached that version for the trainees to try. Let me know if they need help and I will post something in the BOSS forum. Probably over the weekend. Harry
Dear Mr Rogers, You will never know how relieved I am to hear that the Library will remain intact and here at the Manor. I know that you were keen to support our City in its ambition to rival New York, with its Astor and Lennox libraries, but together we have spent considerable effort building a unique collection of rare and important works, and I would have been deeply saddened to lose it. I was touched by your offer to make it a condition of the donation that I should continue to be employed as the curator, but the Manor is my home as well as my workplace, and it feels right that this important collection of rare books should remain here in private hands where I can care for it properly. I am sorry to hear that you will be withdrawing from the race for Governor as I know that was a cherished ambition. I am sure you would have filled the role with distinction, but there will be other ways to serve and I think you are right that the strange death of Stanley Isles would have undermined your campaign. We know what gossip can do in the small world of Rhode Island society and your opponents would have taken great pleasure in speculating on the unexplained death in your home. As you requested, I have completed my audit of the library contents, and I can assure you that nothing is missing and no books have been harmed. I will of course continue to protect them and I hope you will agree that it is worth continuing to invest in the collection. Together we can build it into one of the finest archives of American literature on the East Coast. I understand that your niece, Nancy, will be visiting next week, and I look forward to seeing her again. While she does not share our love of fine books, she certainly loves this house and I am sure she will have her own ideas about how to freshen it up. I remain a loyal servant to you and to the Library, Maisie.
Harry, thanks for all your help. I have really enjoyed this case and I hope you have too, but we might have finally reached its natural end. The team in the document section took a look at Maisie’s encrypted diary and found the following note sewn into the binding. I should have noticed before – the diary has the same stitching style as the edition of The Gold Bug found next to Stanley’s body, which seems more than a coincidence! The text is encrypted, but not in any way we have seen before in this case. It should be the perfect test for our trainees. I won’t say any more right now, but we ran some tests on the ciphertext and, as we discussed, I will release a few prompts to help them on the BOSS forum. I think you have already suggested a schedule so I will try to stick to that, but if we get any suitably cryptic hints from the faster trainees as they crack it, I might publish some of those too. Have you got a theory about what was going on? I had a suspicion last week, but I hadn’t nailed all the details and there were still a few surprises in the plaintext. I wonder how many of the recruits had already worked it out. Maybe they will get in touch to tell us. I will publish the cipher and key before we wrap up so everyone should be able to see how it works. Even if they can’t break it on their own, they should have enough to go on by the end of the exercise and, of course, I will publish the decrypt as usual. In the meantime, have a great holiday. They know how to do it properly in the US though I hope you like cinnamon! Rhode Island gets a lot of snow, so here’s hoping for a White Christmas. Looking forward to seeing you at Bletchley in the spring. Jodie.
December Fourteenth, Nineteen Hundred and Two My time here in my library is drawing to a close, and I must record the truth of what happened here. My employer, Mr Rogers, was a kind and decent man who did not deserve for his ambitions to be thwarted, and I have always regretted what happened to him. I am not sure he ever fully recovered from the loss, and it was never my intention to cause him any pain. But my library is my life, and I could not bear to part with it. I tried so very hard to dissuade him from his plan to donate the collection to the City Library, reminding him of the work we had done together to acquire some of the rarest editions of the great American authors. To see those finely bound volumes side by side and to know that they were mine to care for is all that matters. While Mr Rogers liked the process of building the collection, I think it was always a game to him and that he never truly appreciated the treasures entrusted to us. I am sure the City would have cared for them, but I do not believe that they would have loved them as I do, and I could not allow them to be removed from their home in the Manor. Once I realised that he would not be dissuaded I decided I needed to act. While I had a small fund saved from my generous salary, it was nowhere near enough to offer to buy the whole collection from Mr Rogers, but it was sufficient to buy the services of a printer who was prepared to help me. Together we produced careful copies of some of the most valuable items in my Library intending to replace the originals. Each was flawed in some way that showed it could not have been the original work, and I intended to reveal this to Mr Rogers, hoping that he would then feel obliged to withdraw his offer to the City, rather than face the risk that the forgeries would be discovered. He had boasted of the value and quality of the books, and I believed that the potential loss of face would be too much to bear. Unfortunately my printer misunderstood my intentions, and offered the forgeries to his contact in England who he believed would offer the best price for the copies. I had no idea that he had done so, nor that he had arranged for poor Mr Isles to visit the library to see for himself the quality of the works. The death was accidental, though I blame myself for it. If I had not embarked on my scheme Mr Isles would still be alive. I found his body at the foot of the ladder clutching one of our best forgeries, The Gold Bug, and immediately realised that I was in serious danger. The police might well send the book for analysis and the forgery had been designed to be detectable. I was about to remove it when the housekeeper entered, and seeing the body let out a scream that woke everyone in the East Wing. It was too risky to take the book once she had seen it there and there was no opportunity to replace it. To my surprise and initial relief, the police quickly established that the death was an accident, and since nothing had apparently been stolen or damaged (apart from the broken library ladder of course) they dropped the investigation. My fear of discovery was alleviated, but now it did not seem wise to reveal the fact that the book was a forgery. To do so would open an investigation that might link the intruder to me via my printer friend, and so I prepared an alternative strategy: I would try to undermine Mr Rogers’ campaign for governor by suggesting that he might have been involved somehow in the death. I prepared a note that seemed to implicate him and hid it in the binding of the book, arranging for it to be discovered. I carefully prepared a trail of evidence linking Mr Rogers to the book sellers, hoping that this would cast enough shadow over his reputation that he would feel obliged to stand down from the election. After much persuading and, I must admit, hinting that I might be forced to publish the evidence if he did not agree, Mr Rogers assented to withdraw his offer and to maintain the collection at the Manor. I did not think I would ever be capable of such acts, and yet here I am a forger, conspiracist and blackmailer. But not a murderer. And so to my Library. I have loved it and cared for it for thirty years and. I have thought hard about how I could ensure its future. Miss Warne does not love it as I do and, as the Librarian rather than the legal owner, I had only one way to protect it. I have spent the last six years slowly replacing each and every book in the collection with a forgery. The originals I keep in a book depository in the city, with a small number of my favourite works on a hidden shelf behind the wood panelling in my rooms. Whatever Miss Warne decides to do with the books in her Library when I am gone, my Library will remain hidden, its collection intact. In my will I have made arrangements for the books to be fully reunited in the depository, and after a suitable interval (defined by the statute of limitations), to be sold. They are too precious to lock away for ever and far too valuable to return to a family that does not value them. There is a market for them and the collectors who vie for them will at least have demonstrated how much they care. For such a magnificent collection the proceeds should be substantial, and I have given instructions that money should be used to establish a trust fund dedicated to the education of librarians, teachers, and book binders. We cannot control the future, but we can at least try to shape it.